this is the ghost ranch piedra
lubrication and visitors center that
Ghost Ranch is using as a visitor center
for the conference center visitors who
will stop here get information on
history and natural resources and the
plants and animals of this what is
called a PID or loom brave alley which
is part of the Rio Chama Valley they can
learn a lot about this whole area just
by stopping at this one location there's
a lot the visitors can do here and we
have a gallery space and lots of
exhibits throughout the year in our
gallery we have a gift shop our tower
exhibit features Prince of paintings
that the artist Georgia O'Keeffe painted
when she lived in this area as you look
across the valley you can see the view
that miss O'Keefe called her backyard
and all the geological strata then are
really obvious here and the little
low-lying ground adobe house is the
house that miss O'Keefe called her ghost
ranch home it's house of seven acres and
that view of the cliffs then she called
her backyard view opposite us looking
towards the south with the flattop
Mountain is the view that she called her
front yard Ghost Ranch geology is
amazing and it's famous throughout the
world because ghost ranches home of the
oldest North American dinosaurs or
geology exhibit talks about the
spectacular cliffs that you see outside
our pack house exhibit explains the
Natural History the plants and animals
of the area we have outdoor Gardens
xeriscape gardens medicinal plant and
Native American gardens and if you walk
around our loop you've walked around the
Bieber national forest which is at one
and a quarter acres a smallest National
Forest in the United States and it was
started in 1962 as a demonstration
forest and then of course we're in the
Gateway museum that talks about all the
many cultures that use this Rio Chama
valley from say 80 1100 until the
present the Gateway Museum talks about
the people that use the Rio Chama Valley
prehistorically and historically so
we're talking about the prehistoric tiwa
speaking people the prehistoric tewa I
talked about the ancient farming in this
area the people that came in a little
later the Hickory Apache and we talked
about the youths and then we talked
about the Spanish and then the Europeans
are our most modern cultures the Spanish
exhibit is over here in this corner we
have lots of beautiful spanish-style
weavings to talk about that our Aspen
art exhibit talks about the Spanish
sheep herders and also the Anglo
Europeans coming into this area and
we're sitting here in the Hickory Apache
exhibit hickety Apaches our neighbors to
the north their headquarters in Dulce
New Mexico about an hour north of us I'm
always impressed with the history that's
here whether you're talking about the
oldest North American dinosaur more than
200 million years old that was found in
those cliffs out there or whether you're
talking about people that lived here 80
1200 Spanish coming into this area in
the 1500s it's amazing the layers of
history that are found here
you